README.md, before:

# [Jupyter](http://jupyter.org/) notebooks for [Dyalog APL](https://www.dyalog.com/)

## What is a Jupyter notebook?

A Jupyter notebook document combines an interactive coding session with narrative text according to [Donald Knuth's *literate programming*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literate_programming) paradigm. This format is advantageous for teaching APL, explaining algorithms, and sharing ideas. The consumer of a notebook can modify the code and see the effects of their modification, but can also modify the running text and republish the notebook.

Jupyter notebook documents can be used interactively on the user's local machine after installing Jupyter and [an appropriate language kernel](https://github.com/Dyalog/dyalog-jupyter-kernel) or run in dedicated online environments. Dyalog APL Jupyter notebooks may also be used on [TryAPL](https://tryapl.org/) with no installation necessary (although to protect the server and ensure a consistent experience, restrictions on the code apply). Furthermore, a notebook may be statically viewed by any Jupyter notebook viewer (including zero-footprint online viewers), or exported to multiple formats with wide support, e.g. HTML or PDF.

## Offline usage

1. Follow the [installation instructions for the Dyalog APL Jupyter kernel](https://github.com/Dyalog/dyalog-jupyter-kernel#installation).
1. [Clone](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/) this repository.
1. From a command line, navigate to the directory you cloned this repository to, then run `jupyter-notebook`. This should launch your browser with a directory view. Click on the notebook you want to open.

### APL keyboard and language bar

A zero footprint in-browser language bar, key-bindings, and character compositions is available using [a bookmarklet](https://abrudz.github.io/lb/apl). After installation, launch a Jupiter notebook and then click on the bookmarklet.

## Online usage

These notebooks are available to try through [TryAPL](http://tryapl.org)'s **Learn** tab. Note however that TryAPL only allows a subset of APL to be used.

## Contributing

Feel free to submit pull requests with additional notebooks.

Commit message:

Clearer instructions for less tech savvy users

README.md, after:

# [Jupyter](http://jupyter.org/) notebooks for [Dyalog APL](https://www.dyalog.com/)

## What is a Jupyter notebook?

A Jupyter notebook document combines an interactive coding session with narrative text according to [Donald Knuth's *literate programming*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literate_programming) paradigm. This format is advantageous for teaching APL, explaining algorithms, and sharing ideas. The consumer of a notebook can modify the code and see the effects of their modification, but can also modify the running text and republish the notebook.

Jupyter notebook documents can be used in the following ways:
1. Offline, on the user's local machine: This requires installing Jupyter (a Python program, so installation of Python is required as well) and [an appropriate language kernel](https://github.com/Dyalog/dyalog-jupyter-kernel).
1. Online, in a dedicated sandboxed environment. Dyalog APL Jupyter notebooks be for example be used on [TryAPL](https://tryapl.org/) with no installation necessary. Note however, that to protect the server and ensure a consistent experience, restrictions on the code apply.
1. Statically, in that a notebook can be viewed by most any general Jupyter notebook viewer (including online viewers which do not require installation).
1. Exported to any of a number of widely supported formats, for example HTML or PDF, which may then be used accordingly.

## Offline usage

1. Follow the [installation instructions for the Dyalog APL Jupyter kernel](https://github.com/Dyalog/dyalog-jupyter-kernel#installation).
1. [Download](https://github.com/Dyalog/dyalog-jupyter-notebooks/archive/master.zip) or [clone](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository/) this repository.
1. From a command line, navigate to the directory you cloned this repository to, then run `jupyter-notebook`. (Windows users can alternatively find a *Jupyter Notebook* entry on the start menu.) This should launch your browser with a directory view. Click on the notebook you want to open. 

### APL keyboard and language bar

You can get an APL language bar and enable key-bindings and character compositions using just a [a bookmarklet](https://abrudz.github.io/lb/apl) (a browser bookmark that contains commands which add new features to the browser). After adding the bookmarklet to your language bar, and opening a Jupyter notebook document in your browser, click on the bookmarklet.

## Online usage

These notebooks are available to try through [TryAPL](http://tryapl.org)'s **Learn** tab. Note however that TryAPL only allows a subset of APL to be used.

## Static usage

Go to https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/ and enter the address of any Jupyter notebook to render it right in your browser. No installation of anything is required. Please note that when viewed like this, the content of the notebook may not be modified, so no experimentation is allowed.

## Export to other formats

1. Follow the [instructions for offline usage](offline-usage).
1. Open the *File* menu, click on *Download as* and select format. Note that some taget formats may require installation of third party tools.

## Contributing

Feel free to contribute additional notebooks to our collection through emailing notebooks@dyalog.com or submitting [pull requests](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/).
